Now that we have seen what
association analysis is,
let's go over the association
analysis process in more detail.
After this video, you will be able
to define the terms support and
confidence, describe the steps
in association analysis, and
explain how association rules
are formed from item sets.
Let's review the set in
association analysis.
They are create item the sets,
then identify the frequent item sets.
Finally, generate the rules.
We will continue with
this example dataset,
there are five transactions
in the dataset.
Each with a set of items
purchased together.
The goal is to come up with rules
describing associations between items.
The first step is to create item sets.
Item sets have different sizes
which need to be created.
We will color code the items so
that each one is easier to pick
out from the transactions table.
We start out with just 1-item sets,
that is, sets with just one item.
The left table is
the dataset of transactions.
The right table contains the 1-item sets
that can be created from this dataset.
As each item set is created, we also need
to keep track of the frequency at which
these item set occurs in the dataset.
This is referred to support for
the item set and
is calculated by dividing the number of
times the item set occurs in the dataset
by the total number of transactions.
This is what is in the Support
column in the right table.
For example, eggs the last
item in the right table occurs
just occurs just once in the dataset,
in the transaction two.
So if Support is 1/5 or
one fifth,the item set with
diaper occurs in all transactions,
so if Support is 5/5 or 1.
The Support for each item set will be
used to identify frequent item sets
in the next step, specifically,
the Support issues to prune, or
remove, item sets that
do not occur frequently.
The support of each item set
will be used to identify
frequent item sets in the next step.
Specifically, the support
is used to prune or
remove item sets that do
not occur frequently.
For example, the minimum support
threshold is set to 3/5.
So looking at the 1-item sets table
We can remove any item set with
the support of less than 3/5.
These item sets are highlighted in pink,
they will be removed before the sets for
two items are created.
The final one item sets are then the item
sets with bread, milk, beer and diaper.
We only consider items that were in
the one item sets, that were not pruned.
The two item sets are shown
in the right table.
We, again,
need to keep track of the support for
these item sets,
just as we did with the one item sets.
For example, for
the last item set, with beer, and
diaper, we see, by looking at
the left table, that beer and
diaper occur together three times In
transactions two, three and four.
So with support is 3/5.
Again, we need to prune
item sets with low support.
The ones highlighted in pink
in the two item sets table.
Those would be the item set with bread and
beer and the item set with milk and beer.
The remaining two items that end.
One item such or
then use to create the three item sets.
Let's look now at
creating three item sets.
The only three item sets that has a
support value greater than minimum support
is the one shown in the right table.
Namely the items start with bread,
milk and diaper.
The second step in association analysis
is to identify the frequent item sets.
But note that the process
that we just described for
creating item sets already
identifies frequent item sets.
A frequent item set is one whose
support is greater than or
equal to the minimum support.
So by keeping track of the support of
each item set as it is being created and
removing item sets with low support,
we are already identifying
frequent item sets.
For our example, the frequent one,
two and three item sets are shown here.
Now that we identified the frequent
item sets, the last step is to
generate the rules to capture
associations that we see in the data.
Let's first define some terms we'll
need to discuss association rules.
The format of an association
rule is shown at the top.
It's written as X arrow Y and
is read as if X, then Y.
The X part is called the antecedent and
the Y part is called
the consequent of the rule.
X and Y are item sets.
An important term in rule
generation is the rule confidence.
This is to find as a support for X and
Y together divided by the support for
X only.
So rule confidence
calculates the frequency of
instances to which the rule applies.
Recall that the support for
X is the frequency of item set X and
is defined as the number of
transactions containing items in X
divided by the total
number of transactions.
The rule confidence measures
how frequently items in
Y appear in the transaction
that contain X.
In other words, the confidence measures
the reliability of the rule by determining
how often, if X and
Y is found to be true in the data.
How is rule confidence
used in rule generation?
Association rules are generated from the
frequent item sets created from the data.
Each item in an item set can be
used as a part of the antecedent or
consequent of the rule.
And you can have many ways to combine
items to form the antecedent and
consequent.
So if we just simply generate
rules from each frequent item set,
we would end up with lots and
lots of rules.
Each item set with k items can
generate 2 to the k-2 rules.
That's a lot of rules.
And the majority of those rules
would not be found in the data.
This is where rule confidence comes in.
We can use rule confidence to
constrain the number of rules to keep.
Specifically, a minimum
confidence threshold is set and
only rules with confidence greater than or
equal to the minimum confidence are
significant and only those will be kept.
Let's look at how this works
with our example dataset.
We call that only one three item set
was created from the transactions.
That three items that contains
items bread, milk and
diaper as shown at the top.
With these three item set let's see
how we can generate rules from it and
determine which rules to keep and
which one to prune.
Let's set the minimum confidence to 0.95.
And here again is the definition for
confidence.
For candidate rule if bread and
milk then diaper,
we can calculate it's confidence
as follows the support for
both antecedent and consequent is
the number of times we see bread, milk and
diaper together in the data, divided
by the total number of transactions.
Items bread, milk and diaper appear
together in transaction 1, 4 and
5 so the support is 3/5.
The support for just the antecedent is
the number of times we see bread and
milk together divided by
the total number of transactions.
Items bread and milk appear together
also in transactions 1, 4, and 5.
So the support is 3/5.
The confidence of this rule is then 1,
or 100%.
This means that the rule is correct 100%.
Every time bread and milk are bought
together, diaper is bought as well.
For candidate rule if bread and
diaper than milk,
we calculate its confidence the same way.
The support for bread, diaper and
milk is 3/5 as before.
Items bread and diaper are paired
together in transactions 1, 2, 4 and 5.
So the support for
the items set with bread and milk is 4/5.
Then the confidence with
this rule is 0.75 or 75%.
Since the minimum confidence is 0.95 or
95%,
the first rule is kept and the second
rule is removed from consideration.
There are several algorithms for
association analysis.
Each uses a different set of methods
to make frequent items set creation and
rule generation efficient.
The more popular algorithms are Apriori,
FP Growth and Eclat.
As a summary, we just looked at the steps
in association analysis in more detail.
We saw how items sets can be created from
a dataset, how frequent items sets can be
identified, and how association rules can
be created from frequent item sets and
pruned using rule confidence.